This file contains instructions for what needs to be accomplished by (the first iteration of) this project.

## Features

This codebase is meant to be a transpiler from Kotlin to C++ for competitive programming purposes.
On a high level, that means the following:
- The resulting program should be able to take in a single Kotlin file, and transpile it to a C++ file with the same behavior.
- Since this is for competitive programming, it's important to avoid overhead in the transpilation to ensure that the resulting C++ should be fast (it should be as fast as C++ that was written by hand, and so likely faster than the Kotlin code it was compiled from)
- Also since this is for competitive programming, memory is generally not a big deal, and so it's fine to cause memory leaks rather than try to simulate JVM garbage collection.

Below, I will detail a more specific list of features that the transpilation should support.

### I/O

The transpiler should assume that I/O in the input Kotlin file is done using the following functions:

- `nextToken` -- reads the next token from input (as a `String`)
- `nextInt` -- reads the next token from input (as an `Int`)
- `nextLong` -- reads the next token from input (as a `Long`)
- `nextDouble` -- reads the next token from input (as a `Double`)
- `nextLine` -- reads an entire line (or what remains of it) from input (as a `String`)
- `print`, `println` -- these are Kotlin standard library functions

Thus, it should transpile these to equivalents in C++.
As a special case (if possible), code like `println(xs.joinToString(" "))` should be transformed into more idiomatic C++ that just loops over `xs` and does `cout << x << ' '` or something like that.

Finally, at the beginning of the output `main` function, the transpiler should include the following code:
```C++
ios::sync_with_stdio(false);
cin.tie(nullptr);
```
to optimize I/O.

### Kotlin features

The transpiler should be able to handle all the essential features of Kotlin.
I've provided a list of things that should be included below.
This is not intended to be exhaustive; at the same time, the transpiler is not expected to account for all potentially obscure features of Kotlin that exist.

- Function definitions (including `main`)
- Functions within functions
- Lambdas (such as with `xs.map { x -> x + 1 }` and `xs.filter { it != 0 }`)
- Functions defined simply as `f(x: A) = y` rather than with an explicit body
- Classes, including data classes, sealed classes, and inheritance
- `init` functions in classes
- `if`, `for`, and `while` blocks. The use of `for (x in 0..n)` should be special cased.
- `when` blocks.

### Kotlin/Java standard library features

The transpiler should be able to handle a variety of classes available in the Java and Kotlin standard libraries.
These include the following:

- Kotlin's `List` and `MutableList`, including the `listOf` and `mutableListOf` functions to initialize them
- Kotlin's `mutableMapOf`
- `ArrayDeque`
- `TreeSet` and `TreeMap`
- `Stack`
- `PriorityQueue`
- `BitSet`
- `Pair`
- `StringJoiner`
- Math functions such as `max`, `min`, `maxOf`, `minOf`, `abs`
- Casting functions such as `toInt`, `toLong`, `toString`
- Ranges (for example `0..3`, `0 until 5`, `7 downTo 2`), although their use in for loops should be special cased
- Functions that generate comparators: `compareBy` and `compareValuesBy`
- Kotlin's `Random`
- `StringBuilder`

Some of the collections above have a lot of methods.
You should try to account for all of them, but definitely definitely at least the following should be covered:

- Very standard functions such as access (`xs[index]`), `size`, and the corresponding methods for insertion and removal
- `first` and `last`, as well as `lastIndex`
- `clear` and `addAll`
- `map` and `filter`
- `joinToString` (though this should usually be handled by the special case mentioned above)
- `subList`
- All variants of `sort` (I believe there are 12 in total):
  - Both `sort` and `sorted` variants
  - Variants that include `Descending`
  - `sortBy` variants
  - `sortWith` variants
- In the case of `TreeSet` and `TreeMap`, functions like `lower`, `higher`, `floor`, and `ceiling`. For `TreeMap`, the variants that return an entry should also be included.

## Testing

I have included a variety of sample Kotlin programs in the `examples` directory.
You should also write a large set of Kotlin programs to ensure full coverage of all the features I have described above (and other ones that the transpiler implements).
Ideally there should be a way to automatically test the transpilation of these programs (i.e. we should have proper "tests" that run the transpiler on the input Kotlin program, then run the Kotlin program and C++ program, possibly with some input generated by the test, and ensure that the output is the same).

## Implementation

It's not very important what language the transpiler is actually implemented in.
Let's suppose a preference for implementing it in Kotlin itself for now, but if you have a compelling reason to prefer another language I am open to it.

## Documentation

There should be instructions on how to run the transpiler.